[Music]
I like those mosaic panels.
Yeah, yeah, they're very nice.
It's very cute little one.
I can't read it upside down.
What is the?
It's a clock module.
It sets the clock.
You've got your output.
But it can take clock and do division on it.
They have another tiny little tile that I just got, which is a 4 HP 1U tap tempo.
Okay.
What's the button do?
The button is hold.
So you can try to, if you take the input, you can hold this.
It won't output.
And then do this if you want to re-sync time.
Oh, so it just like mutes the clock?
It kind of just holds it.
It just stops it.
It holds it high.
And then when you release it, then it goes and it just picks back up where it left off.
Interesting.
That's cool.
I actually ordered a couple of other things from them recently from the Detroit modular.
They've got a pretty big lineup now of 1U modules.
They've got a VCO.
Drum mixer.
Um, I tell you, did a bunch of stuff.
Obviously ritual and after later, you know, they've been doing a lot of stuff, but I think
mosaic is like swooping into filling those gaps.
This is nice too.
I mean, just having like the one you, yeah, the one you pix is a.
Is that after later?
Yes, it is.
Yeah.
And they do a lot of different variations of peaks.
Didn't know they had a 1U.
That's kind of cool.
Yeah.
Dead man's firm.
Dead man's catch.
Yeah.
It has a firmware which is really fucking nice, but I had, I did have the print out the cheat
sheet for it.
Yeah.
There's a lot of modes and they're all.
So they're actually all pretty fucking useful.
At first I was like, yeah, I'm just, I kind of wanted the opposite when I got to this.
I was like, I just want something simple.
I just want simple LFOs or simple envelopes.
But then once I started like diving into the other stuff that that firmware has, it's
all good.
I'm pretty stoked on it.
So this is a nice, nice form factor for getting it.
These little tiny potentiometers are a little hard sometimes to dial into.
But you know, it's, it is envelopes and LFOs.
It's on the world.
It's not like frequency.
You know, because they even kept these knobs for the, on the booklet, these big honking
knobs just to get easier to dial into.
Yeah, they are nice.
Plus it just aesthetically that.
Yeah, it's hard to like fuck with it.
They did such a good job with it.
Exactly.
Because I even took one of these off and put a Davey's knob on it to see like, and it looked
fine, but it definitely like, yeah, I'm not going to fuck with this.
I have mine right next to the Danny sound, MML filter too.
And it uses the same like, Rogan, it's good knob.
So it looks, looks like nice.
That one's black though.
But, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I'm even fine with this being a, yeah, not black panel, but it's the only one
in there.
It's not.
It is.
It's one of the few panels that I don't, that I haven't switched to black or just painted
myself.
I mean, it's not because I'm thinking of flipping it.
I guess we can start talking about this is the, the bukla dual oscillator.
2581 from tip top.
2580.
I fucked that up.
That looks like a one to me.
It's a lot Davey.
You know what, that's why we do this as a team.
That's right.
It falls down, the other two are there to pick us back up.
When there was only one set of footprints in the sand, it's because Nick was carrying
me.
Exactly where I was going to go.
I'm glad you did.
But yes, the 2580.
Thank you, Nick.
It's fantastic.
I'm really blown away by it.
It's really, it exceeds my expectation.
And I may have mentioned this in a previous episode that like, for a really long time,
like the 90s and early 2000s, like a bukla system was like, oh my God, if I could just
get one, that would change everything.
And it was, it was very like, like, I covered it very highly.
And then when I went to knob con and played with an easel for a while and like played
with like a set up and all this, I was still into it.
But I kind of was like, eh, it isn't the end all be all.
And so I kind of was like, your gas got deflated.
Yeah.
On one hand, I was glad that I didn't have that fervor anymore.
But I guess it was like, yeah, it's still a sound I like.
This though, this is meeting the last remnants of what I wanted from that sound without,
you know, diving into the bukla system and the environment and frankly the cost of it.
Yeah, I agree.
It's a two oscillators.
They both start from sign, but the top one goes sign to saw.
And then the bottom one is sign to square.
And then outside of that, they are basically the same controls, same inputs.
Two outputs track one volt per octave, CV over the shape, which is rad.
There's an input for FM.
And then there's this processor.
I think that's bipolar FM.
Where's the other ones?
So this is not?
Yeah.
Now a couple of weird things is that I kind of expected when I first saw it was I kind
of assumed there would be some sort of normal on the FM between the two, but they're not.
You've got to you've got to patch them.
Not a huge complaint.
It's just don't expect normal to fit nothing is plugged in.
And that may actually be the end of my list of complaints slash oddities.
It's fucking amazing.
I think they nailed it.
Yeah, I'll say that it's like an interesting not that I care with the panels like thinner
than other panels.
It's always like a little sunk behind other stuff, which I don't care about.
Yeah, for like 200 bucks to get two of those oscillators.
And I'm like you like, I'm going to use the easel.
I forget where I think I used Richard Nichols easel at oscillate years ago.
And I was like, wow, that's completely underwhelming.
Um, didn't really like it.
Didn't like the 200 E stuff when I used it.
It just like, it just wasn't super appealing.
And this is always like kind of what I've wanted from Google.
I don't even want the other modules so much.
Like this five step sequencer looks cool, but it's not like that's kind of redundant.
It just looks like it's nicely laid out.
Um, but yeah, it's like kind of the one I want.
I'm super happy with it.
The sound quality is fantastic.
Oh, absolutely.
And it holds the low end.
It was so excellent.
Really well in a way that was, um, you know, I don't even know if that's historically
accurate or not, like I like and I don't care.
I was shocked by just how well like everything has a like a beef to it that is shocking.
Yeah.
Because I remember at knob con one year later, um, one of the last ones I used a 200 that
like two, five, eight are the Roman flip off dude that does Sputnik stuff.
Mates his, it makes his clones that go for like five grand.
And I patched that up because I always wanted to hear it and it sounded ridiculous.
And then I got like the same feel from it when I patched that up.
I'm like, oh, sweet.
This totally covers what I want for like 20 for the price.
You know, it's ridiculous.
Um, you know, if, if anyone goes on the internet, you're going to see plenty of videos of people
doing some, just, you know, just letting it run as a drone or as a, some pad, this sort
of like, you know, not, not all of a typical use, but like really just an unprocessed
bookless sound.
That sounds good on its own.
Yeah.
But I've been fucking with this and doing different things with it.
It's actually more versatile than I thought it was going to be getting drum sounds out
of it.
And like you were saying, doing, having the CV over the shape and what that does the sound
sounds awesome.
Sounds amazing.
Yeah.
Like boring stuff with it.
That sounds good.
Like the triangle wave sounds really nice.
Like it just has, I don't know, um, something to it, something on the waveform that looks
a little special and sounds really good.
And the deal is up bargain.
Like they could have charged much more money and they would have sold out just as quickly.
So it's cool that they actually like, here's a fucking budget option, something we didn't
like turn into a joke, you know, it's pretty like they nailed the sweet spot.
Much respect for tip top for that shit and book.
Same here.
Also, similarly, I don't know if I'm going to get any of the other ones.
You know, I've looked at them and even the, the, the chaos or the random.
Oh, yeah.
Is that source of uncertainty?
Yes.
Yeah.
I might get it, but I, I don't necessarily know if I'm super excited about having a full
book, a workflow.
I think I'm just happy with this.
Yeah.
I'm right there too.
I don't want to get the rest of them.
A lot of people like want to build full cases of them.
When I get that, like I can see the appeal of it, but there's too much overlap with stuff
I already have, you know, I don't need to low pass gates.
I don't need more slope generators or anything like that, but yeah, I could see it being appealing
if you didn't already have a system.
Yeah.
You know, if you're starting from scratch and you're like, well, fuck it.
I'm going to go this like pseudo buccula route here, especially for the price.
I mean, it's one of the cheapest options.
Just period to getting like your ownership that is decently made.
Yeah.
There's a part of me that was like, I've got to find something bad with this, but there
was a couple of things in like the Mod Whickler thread.
I think someone made like a comment about like it seeming the pots feeling flimsy.
I don't know what they're talking about.
There's nothing.
I mean, like you're right.
The panel's a little thinner, but it's not bending.
I'm not having any sort of like- I'm going to jiggle your pots to do it.
Go ahead and jiggle.
For the viewers at home, there is jiggling.
Yeah.
It's not really feel given that.
It doesn't feel like a plasticy pot.
I don't know what's under that knob, but it feels solid.
Yeah.
I mean, a new industrial music electronics module is going to be way more wobbly than that.
Right.
Not that I care about that either.
But yeah, the knobs feel like a little cheaper clone of like the Rogan ones.
I don't think they're the nicer knobs, but it doesn't like, it looks great.
You know, I'm not changing anything about mine either.
It's fucking, I like the fake banana jacks and the way they color coded it.
That one actually kind of lends itself well to the format.
I feel like the wiggly pots is just like a meme at this point.
Yeah.
Doesn't matter what gets released by whom there's always going to be at least one person and
be like, "Well, the pots feel a little flimsy, a little wobble there, a little disappointed
guys."
Yeah.
I don't know what metric they're using to determine what's flimsy and wasn't, but I
feel like there are those knobs that like, they feel like they're about to break in your
hand.
Those are bad, but they're honestly kind of rare.
Yeah, and say the only time I've experienced knobs that bad or pots that bad, I should
say, was like independent clones that somebody made and they just obviously use like the
cheapest parts possible.
Right.
Yeah.
I felt like shit, but yeah, I don't know.
Not everything is going to feel like a synthesis technology pot.
Yeah.
Like those, you know, those are always incredibly solid, but any anywhere in between I think
is acceptable.
Yeah.
I'm not going to give any oxygen to the idea that this is somehow not startley made.
It's really fucking up your sound when you feel that wobble.
Also, holy shit, half that thread is about people bitching that it's not in bubble wrap
and it's like, maybe they just made like a decision to be like, "We'll see how many
we get back and like, bet you yours fucking works fine."
Right?
I bet you it does.
It's amazing how we go in the box.
Yeah, it was just like in the box basically.
It tightly fit in the box.
It's snug in the box.
Okay.
Well, like Erica sense stuff.
Dope for just gives it to you in a fucking plastic bag all the time.
Yeah.
A Ziploc.
That's how I got all the first Dope for stuff for me.
It's like I'm not bouncing around in the box.
It's fine.
Yeah.
No, it's going to be in pink bubble wrap.
Also there's probably nothing in there that's that static sensitive.
Like think about it.
There's no fucking ICs in there, I bet.
You know, maybe there.
Maybe there.
I could be wrong.
But like, you know, for controversy and for, you know, an exciting coverage on this, I
would love to have found something to complain about.
Yeah.
And yet even with that desire, with that desire to complain, which is, you know, pretty strong
in me.
I love a good complaint.
I couldn't find anything.
This is, I think they nailed it.
So any other dual loss that you're going to spend $200 on is probably going to be dog
shit.
Yeah.
Or not as versatile.
I think that's the other thing is like you can probably find some really bland bread and
butter.
And a log oscillators that you're going to get.
You're going to get from A to Z pretty quickly.
This is something that sounds better than my plate, Steve.
Lots.
It's very different.
200 bucks.
Different.
Yeah.
I mean, I think that's a little bit like it's apples and oranges, honestly.
I mean, I have, I would not get rid of one over the other.
Nah.
Yeah.
I like a booth a lot.
Same here.
My plots is not in this palette that we're looking at right now, just because it's in my
other machine.
The FM though, you definitely couldn't get plots to it.
Because you're an analog here.
It's right.
It's true.
As it is beside this ornament and crime and FXA, it's, yes, I'm definitely an analog
purist.
The ornament and crime actually, the display's been ripped out in a piece of wood has been
put in its place.
It's just an abacus.
Hardison wood panels.
I mean, as far as my notes go, that is the top one and it's underlined.
So to our listeners at home, there's show and tell going on right now.
I brought this palette in with the Bucala, sitting here with a bunch of other stuff.
Nick also participated in show and tell me, Greg is not, by the way.
I don't know if we really need to make sure that everyone understands that Greg is not
participating in show and tell.
Even though we're in a room at his house with a million amazing things, I brought a
rock for a rock.
He's sparkling water.
But Nick has brought something for, oh, good.
No, that just triggered a flashback for me.
Show and tell.
Yeah, I'll never forget.
First grade doing show and tell.
Everyone has toys, you know what I mean, things like that.
I brought some Star Wars toys.
I don't remember which one specifically, but I was all excited to show off my Star Wars
toys.
And there was this one kid who was always weird and we knew he was like kind of poor, but
we were all buddies with him anyways.
And for show and tell, he brought in a secrets, um, Losin's tin.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
And then he opened it up and he showed us his gum band.
Single?
And some paper clips.
Yeah, it was a gum band.
There was an eraser in it, some paper clips, and I think a coin.
And that was his show and tell.
And that just always made me feel like such a piece of shit.
Like, you know, there was plenty of kids laughing at him and shit like that.
But like even in first grade, like I had like the empathy, you know, awareness.
I was just like, fuck.
This kid doesn't have a lot to talk about, man.
It was just really sad.
And anytime I think of show and tell that just pops back in my brain.
So yes, I brought a secretes tin and I'm showing you my gum band.
Also, by the way, this does need an editor's note for everyone outside of Pittsburgh who
doesn't know what the fuck you're talking about when you say gum band.
Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
A rubber band.
Yes.
A little Pittsburgh.
Pittsburghies happening for everyone outside of Pittsburgh.
Yeah.
That was a dramatic story there.
Yeah, I was trying to keep it, you know, on the low dark mood.
The easy sound tone.
Who I know a shot.
But yeah, in front of me is not a gum band, but an oxy one sequencer, which I've mentioned
on here before and waited like, I think it was half a year before they ended up producing
it, but they were actually oxy instruments who makes the oxy one.
They were super transparent and they hit all their dates and as far as kick starters
go, it was a pretty fucking good one in that regard.
You got this through the kick starter?
Yep.
Yeah, I was one of the, I was the tail end of it, which is why I was the part of the very
last shipment to the last 50.
How fuck are you powering it?
Good question.
It's got an internal battery that you can charge.
It's also got Bluetooth.
Is that replaceable?
Good question.
I think so, at least they don't have any instructions on how to and actually thinking
about it because I have it powered right now with no cables.
Yeah, that's what blew my mind.
I was wondering why you didn't plug it in at first, but now I see you don't have to.
Yeah, and it's got a nice feature.
You can see it's got a shit ton of fucking IO.
And one of the things that's confusing at first is like a four sequencer sequencer.
You can't say it's four track, but it's four sequencer and you can pick types.
You can pick like still learning this, you can pick like mono sequencer type, you can
pick poly.
There's like a chord one that does like chords in it will show you like you can hit a button
to change the inversions and shit, which is really cool.
If you're somebody that doesn't know, chord stuff that well.
Multi track is actually the answer for like, why does it have eight CV gate pairs if you
only have four like track sequencers is multi, you can kind of collapse stuff down to a single
lane.
And take like, I think one of the other types and like collapse them down into a multi and
it'll kind of smush them together and then you can address more of the output tracks.
So when you smush them, how does that work when you're doing things with chords?
Good question.
I haven't like played with that too much yet.
As far as I know, it will put that all under like a single lane on here.
I don't know how editing works at that point.
That's one of the track types I haven't fucked with too much.
I've been playing with mono, poly and chord and actually this firmware on here is actually
you can't even get it.
Mine came with 1.8, but you can only download 1.6 right now and it's got this stochastic
mode, which you can do some.
I haven't.
This is the first time I've even gone into it.
So I have no idea.
I was going to ask if you're doing like, seating or what you're doing for like, you can stochastic
parameters.
They ripped off some mono stuff as far as I know.
And it'll do a bunch of like random skipping around of a sequence.
Like I don't understand that one very well yet.
But it's cool.
You get this view and you can see you've got like four different lanes there.
And the cool thing is you can kind of like trigger these in time and be like, start on
the next bar or wait until then I trigger you and then start on two bars so you can get
stuff to all like sequence in time.
Shit.
Mute it, unmute it.
There's like a keyboard mode.
So this is just like everything that you're playing and you can record stuff in here.
The only bug I've run across so far is like I've gotten some hanging notes like awns that
are stuck in the keyboard mode.
I'm sure they'll fix that.
That's nothing big.
There's an arpeggiator mode I haven't fucked with too much here.
Oh, I'm on the wrong track type.
You got to be on the poly.
Kind of modes we got an ARP.
Question.
Oh, there's.
On nothing too sexy.
Oh, okay.
Off, up, down, up, down, too up, too down.
Alternate in, alternate out, alternate in out.
Pinky thumb.
I don't even know what the fuck that is.
Random.
I'm definitely still learning.
I've only had it.
I think I got this last Monday or something like that.
Can you do things like change the ARP type per step or anything like that?
I don't think so.
I think it's fixed.
You can do something like, I think, you can do it.
It's got a CV input and you can like CV in the track length and shit like that.
There's a bunch of different destinations that you can CV.
I think if you go to mod, yes, CV in and the destination could be velocity, pitch, octave,
gate, mod, pitch, bend, division, a parameter, you could set trigger probability.
Any of the CCs.
So it's does MIDI.
H, CV gates.
The entire back of this thing is riddled with inputs and outputs.
You can send tempo synced LFOs out of those.
You can send pitch and gate out of those.
You can change.
You can assign any of them to any track basically and just be like, oh, even in a chord mode,
you can say every third note of a chord send that to one of the CV outputs.
So is that all output generally on the back?
Yeah, most of its output.
These are eight CV gate outs.
There's the clock out to the clock or CV in.
There's actually, that's TRS.
So you can get a splitter and send it to either MIDI and MIDI out.
So not too much CV in compared to like the Westlake performer, which I have or some other
things.
And then this awesome pipe output, which is mini HDMI to the module that I got, which
is the oxy pipe, which turns out like I'm so fucking glad I got that because it couldn't
be more convenient.
It works really well.
It's a passive module, but I don't know.
Is any pitch artifacts or anything like that?
And it's basically just giving you an interface to that output.
Yeah.
Each track can have its own clock division, which is nice.
Think you can do quantized and unquantized recording.
Yeah.
Definitely still learning it.
It's really easy to be a duplicate stuff or to like extend pattern lengths out.
What, like, how does it save as far as like presets or like, like, how do you build, like,
is there scenes?
Good question.
So in here, and this is what I'm still learning, there's different.
I haven't set up many patterns yet outside of just single ones, but here's like the sequence
or a ranger and you can kind of like play the different patterns on the tracks and shit
like that.
Gotcha.
This part, I don't understand much either.
I've just been figuring out how to sequence with it.
Really digging it.
It reminds me so much of the deluge and this button grid is actually the exact same number
and dimensions of the deluge button grid.
It's probably the same part.
Mm hmm.
I'll do mine if I push one of these.
No, go ahead.
Oh, that's 100% the same.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
When I got it, I was like, oh, cool.
And that's the one thing I really missed about the deluge.
In fact, for a minute, I was looking at deluge and scanning.
They're still like very expensive.
They're one of those things that I think are even more than the new cost right now.
Yeah.
But I love being able to sequence, note sequences and be able to see it visually.
It's, I was thinking about this today in the shower of all places as I normally do like,
I like my modular because I'd like to be able to see visually what's going on in one
place and also really like this sequencer because it lets me do the same.
It's not like this note number tucked into a lane.
Yeah.
Let's go.
I can just see this fucking note.
It makes a lot of sense to me.
I think this is a chromatic.
I don't even understand this.
Maybe this is one of the CC outlets.
Definitely still learning it as I'm trying to learn the MZ7, the O7, which I'll talk about
too.
So there are parts of it that have confused me a little kind of describing this to the
listeners here.
Obviously, this is more than a monom too, but all of the buttons obviously have like multiple
colors they can be.
Yeah.
And it almost looks like a, like a jacked up beat, beat step pro.
Right.
But with like, you're changing the color in real time.
So yeah, this is, this looks amazing.
Yeah, I'm super happy with it, especially for the price.
I think it was like 750 including the module, which is really fair.
It came out, there was a minute when it was shipping to me and the Hapax was released
where I was like, uh, you know, I'd used to use the pyramid forever.
I was almost going to like buy the Hapax and then flip this the moment it arrived.
And then Luke actually got the Hapax, which he really likes.
And I'm like, I'm just going to get this and chill with this.
And I'm glad I did.
It's a, I like the battery, the portability.
I haven't fucked with the Bluetooth much, but it's cool.
Like they let you update the Bluetooth firmware separately from the other ones.
Like it seems to be designed very well.
I think it's like a one or two person show and they got the hardware done and they're
like, cool.
Now I'm onto the firmware.
And I will say for a lot of projects, like looking at you, eloquencer and some other
things, like they've been releasing updates like rapidly to fix bugs.
So you get the sense this is their one and only thing and they're focused on it.
Yeah, it looks like they're going to nail this.
Seems like they're excited to work on the firmware and more.
I'll say to a clocks and receives clock like a motherfucker have used it stably for hours.
I would use it and we'll use it in my next live set.
Oh, question.
That was going to be one of my questions.
It's been totally solid.
It also looks, it also looks heartily built.
Like, like this is well constructed.
It's all like steel.
They talked a lot of on the Kickstarter about the process of this.
They changed the design multiple times to make it better as they just used the instruments
that like they fucking crushed it in that regard.
So those of us that didn't participate in the Kickstarter, is this available or is it
like a waiting list or like how do you actually get one of these if you, you know, don't
already have one.
I think you can just order right now, if I recall, but it's still like they build them
as they can get MCU's the arm processors for them, which are hard to get.
So it's always like you could tell when they get another like tray of 50.
They're like, yes, you know, 50 more.
It's like, yeah, it's just hard to get those for everybody.
That's why the Hapax, the next batch is until June just because of the fucking processors
and ship building it all.
But kind of generative functions can it do.
So the stochastic stuff, which is in beta, outside of that, there's not too much generative.
There's like the random step kind of functionality.
There's the ability to CV like the, some of those values like step length and things
like that.
And I think even maybe sequence length.
But outside of that, not much other than that stochastic thing, which I haven't fucked
with too much.
So we can you have different lengths per track and you have them?
Oh, that's cool.
You can have different lengths per track.
Actually, it's nice that this overview lets you kind of reset these tracks too, because
it gets fucking haywire pretty quickly when you have different track lengths.
And it does it true, you know, like how the deluge has the two modes, like the true, what
the fuck is it?
What's the word for that when you have like two different sequence types and the one is
like following a master reset and the other one's just always run on there.
Oh, fuck.
Well, I didn't.
The pyramid let's use.
Paul, is that true?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, Pauli metric.
Thank you.
I was thinking we could turn it into like the contest for our listeners to fill in that
blank and then they win something if they actually can remember that word.
I think you can change.
Maybe I'm wrong.
Oh, maybe LFO is just for the track, but it's got a MIDI and CV LFOs.
I was definitely, this is actually I've gotten the virus TI back out again because I was
like, okay, let's sit down with this.
And it's fucking amazing to just sit this down with one MIDI cable into the tie sequence.
All the parts on it that you want basically send LFOs over CCs and things like that.
It's just, it's a lot of fun in that way.
It's really, really fun to use.
I'm really digging it.
Yeah, which kind of brings me to you got my Jupiter six back and the first thing I did.
So thank you, Chase Smith of a specs, electronics, specs and sales, electronics.
Imana, Willie Burnett out of New York out of New York out of Brooklyn.
They fixed a lot of stuff, tried to get my Jupiter fixed.
It was like out of my understanding of being able to fix it turned out it was something
with the film capacitors on the voice boards, which I have on order now from Mauser.
Chase couldn't get them in time.
He said, no, I reseeded the ICs.
He redid most of the active electronics, charged me like almost nothing for it.
I paid him like more than he charged me for.
It works and it sounds fucking incredible.
I just sat down with it in the oxy and it was a lot of fun to output chords into it.
Oh yeah.
That's the thing.
I was really ramped up to sell it for a while.
I was even going to sell it broken because I'm just like, I don't want to take care of
a 43 year old synthesizer for much longer.
I don't think that thing has been functional since I've known you.
Yeah, it's always had prob.
I was just kind of like off in your setup, like just chilling.
It's been broken more often than not.
But when it does work, it's awesome, except some of the things inherent to the Jupiter
6 clicky envelopes that are kind of fucking annoying, but you can just bump the attack
up a little and get out of that trap a little.
But yeah, super enjoying that.
The combo, I'm glad I have it.
I'm going to keep it.
I'm not going to sell it at this point.
Or at least I'm going to play with it for a long time.
Because Chase calibrated it.
It's like, oh, this is what it's like when this thing actually all works perfectly.
Nice.
Yeah, no, I remember you were fired up to sell it.
But that's rather you're keeping it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I got it for a song in 2003 or something like that.
I bet it looks sexy next year.
808.
Oh yeah.
No, it's even the 808 are fine friends.
Yeah.
You had a question you were going to ask me about it, didn't you?
My question was going to be, are you keeping it?
Oh yeah.
Because I remember you were talking about getting rid of it.
And I think there was one time I was at your house when we were working on something.
And it was on.
But even then, it was basically already having fits and wasn't working.
So I'm very excited to see what you cook up with an actually working one.
Yeah.
I'm going to recap some of the voice boards.
It's got a little bit of dirt in the VCR, a little bit of a click.
But it's not like a big deal.
But I wonder if replacing those film caps will kind of make it a little more smooth.
But yeah, I'm just like to keep it now that I know that somebody can like help me with
it.
Because the other person I went to was like, yeah, it'll just be a year and it's going
to be $2,000 no matter what's wrong with it.
Because I, you know, fix fucking things for the Eagles and you're just some dumbass in
Pittsburgh, you know, and I get it.
Like, and even at one point was like, yeah, okay, let me know in half a year and they
never got back to me.
And I called them and they're like, yeah, it'll be a year from now.
I'm like, okay, I can't keep doing this.
And that was part of the frustration is like, because I don't want to maintain vintage
gear.
I'm not into it.
I don't want to.
I can see how some people are like building modules, but not, yeah.
It's like to have both of these huge positive editions.
I'm really glad that I jumped on this like half a year ago.
Totally slipped onto my radar, man.
A few months back before I was getting too deep into VCB rack, I was looking at outboard
sequencers again and I kept leaning towards the torso mainly because I liked some of the
generative functions that I had, you know what I mean?
But I did not like how everything was like kind of tucked away on that thing.
Like it's too small, too menu based, but seeing this grid, like that's always been
in a highlight for any sequencer that I've enjoyed over time.
No doubt.
Being able to see the steps.
And it doesn't look like it's one of the problems I had when I had a monom was it's
basically a sea of buttons.
There's a sea of buttons.
Yeah, it's always been too daunting to me.
That's why I didn't like to lose either though.
Like that's kind of turned off like because it looked like a monom to me and I'm just going
to get lost in a sea of nondescript white buttons.
I don't know.
I'm totally reasonable and I, but I've never had that problem with deluge where even having
the smallest monom that you can, that I can make, I got lost even in that tiny grid where
like this, this doesn't, I mean, this doesn't have that problem and deluge doesn't for me.
Yeah.
This is a, this is pretty nice.
Yeah, I'd like to know more about the stochastic feature.
Yeah.
I wonder if I could get it to work a little better here.
Like if it can do certain things like transpose once per cycle or, you know, anything like
that that make it like evolve.
Oh, one, that's a actually good question is one thing it does have is a trigger conditions
from the electron.
Cool.
Nice.
So you can do like play this.
Why don't I can't remember how to play it once every fourth rotation.
Yeah.
I think it's on the gate.
What the fuck is that?
I forget because yeah, I was super excited about it.
Yeah, trigger 100%.
You can do percentage and then it goes right to one every two times, one every three times
like everyone up to eight times.
Nice.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
That's fucking huge.
I got so excited by that feature because that's really key to me because that's one thing.
The 707, which I may talk about, can't do that.
Right.
And I'm realizing that electrons are ruined to me.
And if the sequencer doesn't have that, I really have a hard time getting into it.
So one of the one of the things that Duluth has is if you've got two, two notes on different
tracks on the same step, you can have them based on, you can do percentages based on
either of them.
And if they add up to a hundred, that means at least one of them will be done every time.
That's smart.
This doesn't have that.
No, I might suggest that.
Here's the thing that this other product does.
It's incredibly fucking nice.
I use this shit out of it.
So that would be really rad if they added that to this too.
I don't think that was there when I was using it.
Oh, random perform.
What is it?
You can do some random velocity, random, octave, random retrigger.
And you can perform those to some degree.
I don't know how that works yet either.
Okay.
And you clit in.
So I take it, you can use this as a drum sequencer.
Yeah.
It has like ratcheting.
It has retriggers, no ratcheting.
It does have, no, it doesn't have microsteps.
The 707 does.
Okay.
Oh, wait, wait, wait.
No, it might be wrong.
Damn it.
I think it does have the ability to shift in time.
Cool.
Why am I missing that?
I could be again thinking about the 707.
So while you're looking for that, I want to let the users know that whatever this little
screen on it is looks fucking amazing.
I'm like, on the other side of a table and I can read this perfectly fine.
Yeah.
Like any angle.
This is OLED.
This is really nice.
The 707, it actually inverts the more you look at it at a different angle.
That's like, oh, yeah, you can offset each step individually, retrigger it, trigger probability
and glide.
You can set for every step.
Oh, nice.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, I'm super psyched on it.
Still learning.
There's still, it's still in development.
Like for right now, you can't save as on a project.
Like if you're doing work on project one and you like where you're going, you better
keep saving project one.
Because when you can't like save project one to project two yet and people are like
immediately complaining.
He's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll get to it.
I know I know.
I know.
Right.
For now, just like work with this, right?
Or you can.
Back up software or something like that where you can like back the thing up and then like
copy something over manually.
So that's a little clunky.
Yeah.
But he's known.
He's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's not as important right now.
I'm like, cool, I get it.
And it sounds like you have work with that.
That will actually be executed well.
Given the how quick the updates have been coming out after the hardware release, I've
got some faith in the fact that it's not like it works.
I haven't had it crash on me.
And from that stuck note, nothing weird has happened.
And apparently the battery will last for like up to six hours or something like that.
On a charge.
You charge it on the left side.
There is a USB, which is your USB MIDI and you're charging.
Gotcha.
And then there's the little off button.
That's about it.
This is also smaller than I thought it was going to be facing the pictures.
I thought it was going to be along the size of the Medusa.
Like that's the form factor I thought it was going to be.
And this is maybe the same size as the Beatstep Pro.
Maybe a little bit wider.
But this is going to add nothing to it like a live set.
How much you got to carry around the way now?
Exactly.
That's why it already made its way into the live set of two all live sets easily.
Just because it's so easy.
The MIDI, it's all eight inch jacks.
But I think they actually have it where it will work with both of the stupid types of
MIDI to eighth inch, which I think anybody anymore should do.
Yeah.
Super sick.
Oh, and you can like nudge sequences back and forth in time.
It has most of the stuff that you could think of.
Copy and paste works really well for notes and patterns.
Yeah.
And you can configure stuff like you can have it follow.
The sequence are not.
Oh.
You can all this program stuff that isn't active and kind of go back, which not too many pieces
of gear will do.
Yeah.
Oxy instruments, Oxyone.
Hope they keep cranking them out and can get their parts and everything because they
stoked on it.
Yeah.
I can see getting one of these in the future at some point.
Like you're getting a lot of shit for that amount of money.
Yep.
Yeah.
This in the half acts I think are like kind of a next step up for hardware sequencers.
Especially the half acts is 999 and that thing can do like way more than this honestly.
I like this approach too.
It's a little simpler, but still has a lot of power.
The half acts can load like two projects at once.
Like all sorts of weird shit.
Yeah.
It's cool to see what people are doing.
Just imagine like having this like 20 years ago.
Oh, yeah.
Fuck is this?
Stoked.
Nice.
Greg, I see you've put a kickstand on your cell phone.
So I could read my notes.
I didn't realize your phone had a kickstand though.
That is very often forget that it does.
I just remembered now and I said, oh, finally get to use it.
We have two very positive experiences so far.
Are you are you about to?
I'm going to keep that train rolling.
Nice.
I don't have anything to bitch about right now.
I have some high prey.
For what?
What is it Greg?
Two things.
Well, I'll start with the first one.
That is dipping into some new territory we haven't really discussed before on a podcast.
Talking of course the V word.
Wait, are you talking about VSTs?
VSTs.
Are you fucking kidding me?
What?
Yeah.
Talk about a time war.
Let's go back in time.
Wow.
So you're on KVR.
On KVR.
It's the year 2001.
Day zero, you're going to get some paradox raps.
I forgot to turn my speakers down.
And T-Mare key gen music is blasting my ears out.
Oh my god.
For volume.
There are dogs.
Rocks, rocks, rocks.
Yeah.
I've purchased and installed some VSTs for the first time in a long time from one noise
engineering.
Tight.
Yeah.
But let's take a step back before I go into that.
Hopefully we don't go so far back as the noise engineering interview that we've fucked
up.
Let's speak of that.
Okay.
Let's talk about it a far back.
No, I have pretty much zero interest in most VSTs these days.
Saying the word kind of gives me anxiety.
The whole option paralysis.
You know what I mean?
It's just so overwhelming.
And spending every morning waking up and finding out what the new ones are and what
the new ones are.
You need to update that you already have installed a new compressor.
Yeah.
I definitely need another one.
I only have 50 installs.
This might be the one that actually solves all of my problems.
Yeah.
No.
I mean, getting into modular was like something that I did because of just burning out on
VST and software in general.
So it's pretty weird to me that it's the year 2022 and I'm excited about VSTs right
now.
Yeah.
I saw that noise engineering had released a new bundle of VSTs.
It wasn't just like a single one.
It was called bundle one.
It had in it the VST port of their bacilamous, their cursus and their desmetous Versio reverb
slash delay all bundled together.
And like I got the email and I was like, that's cool.
Good for you noise engineering.
Right.
I needed it and I didn't think about it again.
But in the back of my head throughout the day, I kept thinking like, wow, that would
be cool though to be able to have multiple bacilamouses open.
Bacilamai.
And do what I was doing in my modular rig a couple years back and having a drum machine
right now.
And I was like, that would be slick to have a software.
Oh, wait.
We got to stop though.
I'm not an endorsement of email blasts, email promotions, email mail list.
Just because it worked this one time on you, finally doesn't mean everyone should run out
and start an email list.
Like I feel like you're maybe maybe encouraging some bad behavior here.
Maybe it did work on me.
It hooked me in.
It planned that seed, you know, being able to open, you know, have multiple instances
of some of my favorite plugins of theirs.
And I was like, if only I could open that, you know, in VCV rack, then I would be on board.
And then like a few hours later, I was like, wait a minute, because I was still thinking
about it.
And like I had finished work and, you know, the evening was upon me.
And I was like, it's fucking around in music.
And I was like, you can open VSTs in VCV rack.
It's just not a on board function.
And it's not for free.
I had totally forgot that they have a separate package just called VCV host that allows you
cost 30 bucks and allows you to open like any VST effect or instrument from within VCV
rack.
It's a wrapper, basically.
How does it appear in VCV rack?
It just appears as like a blank module for the tiny screen, kind of like they're in out
module, you know what I mean?
Like it's just has a grid of like CV ins.
Okay.
And a small menu.
Nothing fancy.
But yeah, like you open the VST within that and then on the side, you know what I mean?
You'll just have the actual instrument or effect, whatever the fuck it may be.
Doesn't really matter because like the interface is the same, but there's two separate modules.
There's like VCV host instrument and, you know, same thing for effects.
So, I bought it.
I've spent the 30 bucks and then I bought the noise engineering plugins and like within
an hour, I was just kind of like having a blast doing exactly what I was hoping that
I would be able to do.
Yeah.
It was a success.
The plugins are scalable.
Like they noise engineering did a good job with these, which is one of the main reasons
why I wanted to bring it up.
You know, it's not just like a direct port of the hardware.
It's not even just a direct reproduction of what they have available for reason as a rack
extension.
Like they have graphic options.
You can scale the size of it to three different sizes.
They all have their own onboard modulation grid.
Like you can assign a LFO or an envelope to any parameter and it's just a grid.
Like it's a separate page.
Yeah.
But as nice as that is, I don't even need it because I'm doing it within VCV rack.
You know what I mean?
So like when you use the VCV host, you can assign, you know, whatever modulation source
you want to any parameter that can accept modulation.
So yeah, I was literally modulating a virtual instance of a bacilimus within VCV rack with
my hardware rig.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like it's so strange, but it was working like a champ.
And there's no delay.
There's no, there's like everything else is all just seamless.
It's pretty solid.
Wow.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
So I made my own version of a drum machine, you know what I mean?
With it and I was sequencing it with NVCV rack and affecting it with my hardware.
And it was just a very strange meta hybrid setup and it was working fantastic.
And it sounds good.
I mean, everything.
So I mean, just because I've spent so much time with the BIA, I can tell the differences.
It's a little thinner, of course, which is I think to be expected.
But it is like near identical.
Like I'm able to dial in a lot of the same percussive sounds that I was doing on hardware
very quickly, very easily.
The only thing that seemed a little weird to me is the scaling of CV.
It seems the only one to accept positive.
And it always wants to start from like zero.
I had to use like offsets and things like that to get things like where I wanted it from
like the starting point for the modulation.
That problem doesn't exist if you use the onboard modulation grid or matrix.
Yeah.
Got you on.
See, I don't know what is up with that, but it was working.
You know.
And how many of these did you have multiple instances running at the same time?
Like how many did you have a lot?
I had like two curses going, a few basil in this going, being routed through a couple
of different instances of their Versio stuff.
That package includes Desmetus, which is like the Reverb one, but they also offer for free.
And I forget the name of it right off the top of my head, but the distortion.
Versio.
Yeah.
So I was running things through that.
Like I just I was trying to push it, you know, just as a test and it all went pretty
well.
It seems like it eats a little more CPU than your average VCV module, which makes sense,
I guess, you know what I mean?
But it wasn't like bringing my CPU to a halt or anything.
I was able to do a lot with it.
They added some extra features to it as well.
Like the curses now has on board a filter slash low pass gate and also a course like
a FEX processor, all of which are multi mode, like can do high pass low pass.
So the course has like type one type two.
So that's kind of cool.
You know, like they expanded upon it a little bit and it sounded solid.
So I have no complaints there.
And for the price, you know, it's not the cheapest VST, but like.
Right.
But if you had all of those, if you bought all of that hardware, you'd be in thousands
of dollars.
Thousands of dollars.
Right.
I tried to estimate it when I had like a good drum machine patch going the other day.
I was like, this I think would literally cost me about 10 grand.
I mean, since I've been trying to keep things more economical lately, you know what I mean?
And offset things from my hardware to VCB.
One of the things that I was missing the most was voices.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like I was offloading a lot of utility.
Like I think I talked about in the previous episode.
Yeah.
Sequencing, utility, modulation, all that was going to be C.V.
Whereas a lot of the sound sources and voices I was trying to keep as hardware.
This has opened up a whole new door.
You know what I mean?
Because I'm like really familiar with the noise engineering stuff.
It sounds close enough.
This was like the missing link I think that I've been looking for to really keep things
cost effective and to be able to push this hybrid set up further.
Now, has this made you look at other VSTs?
Already?
With a new i-install reactor.
And I was opening it within V C V rack.
Oh shit.
God damn.
Like this whole different fucking rabbit hole that I really didn't want to go.
Trying to stay productive.
You know?
Right.
So your next record is in ten years, eleven years from now?
I'm at least trying to finish this EP before I go off the rails in a different direction.
Yeah.
Like I have a system that I'm using to work on these tracks.
I'm trying to keep it to that system.
I didn't want to deviate off of it even enough.
Like I didn't want to get distracted by these noise engineering.
Yeah.
I was like I know this is going to derail me and it did.
I spent a whole weekend fucking with it instead of finishing the track that I was already
working on.
However, I've already like quickly figured out how to integrate it into that system
that I was already using.
Oh that's awesome.
Yeah.
It's less of a distraction and more like actually helping me progress the album.
So yeah.
Oh that's really cool.
But I don't want to go beyond that.
Like as soon as I found myself like fucking around and reactor again I was like no.
I was like what am I doing?
This needs to wait.
Like I can explore this some other time.
Need a stay productive.
That's how this sequencer is.
It's been accelerating things whereas the MC 707 quite the opposite.
You want to talk about the MC07?
Oh you want to still roll on this?
Yeah.
I was just bringing up the noise engineering stuff.
It's something that at first glance I thought I had zero interest in and it doesn't really
like taking my setup to a whole different level of productivity in about one week's worth
of time.
Yeah.
Just wanted to bring it up.
I saw those two and was similarly interested but I don't have like I'm not using VCV rack
so I'd have to like sequence them in Ableton and that opens up like similar worm holes.
Yeah going back into the box more than you want.
Exactly.
So you're on your print out there.
Yeah.
So fucking looping right?
So I got it in my stupid head that I wanted Ableton like functionality in a live set.
Which I kind of do.
You know loops are useful.
You've been pursuing this for a while now.
Been pursuing this for a minute.
And you do have that loop or pedal that you've been using.
Yeah RC505.
Yeah.
We'll definitely get to that too.
RC505 does the trick and I was like huh.
Like a lot of more effects would be cool to actually be able to see a grid of things.
The RC505 you kind of got to know which preset you want to use.
I'd have to keep a piece of paper to keep track.
And I was like oh shit that a Kai force like Ansem like works for Ansem right?
It's got to be able to work for me.
So got in a Kai force.
First one got fucking lost.
Fuck you FedEx.
Got another one back and dug into it.
And it's really cool.
Like it's very powerful.
It's all like the same Macai MPC shit except the nice thing about the forces.
It doesn't use programs like the MPC does.
The dreaded for me program structure which is a huge grid of fucking parameters that
lets you sign samples, change parameters, all this other shit that I don't really want
to fuck with and was really complicated when I had the MPC one and kind of put me off on
it.
So that part was really cool except then I tried to like loop with it.
I'm like alright let me try to do the thing.
It's fun to make stuff.
They have like these virtual plugins on it.
You can stack effects.
It reminds me a lot of a machine.
Like when I was using machine a whole lot to like play live sets and do everything in
the world.
I was like I want to taste of that again.
And the force kind of had that seem to.
But then when you loop like it can't loop for shit.
First it has two ways to do the loops.
You can record clips in like Ableton style where you can use their looper device.
And they never tell you this and I forgot this about the one is the looper only works
when your habit is master.
So you can't.
Yeah yeah exactly.
You got to have the thing follow to have the looper be able to work or have it be in
master.
If you do it just disables it.
They don't even really tell you.
I just like won't let you record.
They don't really mention this anywhere you kind of dig like they should be a little more
upfront about that.
But I'm like okay I'll go to clips right try to record a clip in everything seems to sink.
It seems to like you know follow midi clock like no problem at all.
But every time I'd record a loop it would either fuck it up in the beginning or it would
click in a way that was like really driving me nuts.
So when you say fuck up like what was it fucking up like it would seem to have some
artifact when it would play back a loop like intermittently and another friend of mine
who got a force at the very same time.
What's up Gabo.
He kind of indicated the same thing that it was a little more inconsistent after a while.
So I was really frustrated because the whole point of the thing is to be like Ableton
in a box and so I'm like I'm clearly doing this wrong.
I'm going to open up like their demos and shit like that to like check it out.
All the loops in the demos fucking click unless they have silence at the end of them
which a lot of them do.
It's like a four bar loop and it'll be like a little phrase and then trail off into silence.
Those seem to work all right.
But if you have any like loop that would work in Ableton or anything like that it'll
click like every time in a way that's.
And it's not just through zero problem like it is like it is just like a click click.
It probably is something about the zero crossing.
Yeah.
Most things tend to address that with either like a micro fade like Ableton makes it so
you can't really do it wrong.
Which is great and has never limited me musically and this thing didn't.
I'm like okay I'm I'm insane right now like I'm expecting this is how loopers work like
I'm my expectations are fucked up.
So I returned it because it was sweet water in highbrook the rep sweet water.
It was probably pissed when I like returned this thing two days later I was like oh can't
loop.
Because at first I was you know like I said trying to boss RC 505 it loops like a jam
like there's never an issue with it.
So I'm like no this is people have solved this problem.
And so I like gave up I'm like I'm not going to try this.
And then it was some ad or something like that I got home at one in the morning one night
and saw an MC 707 and it was like oh shit I'm going to try this thing kind of randomly.
And so historically we've shit on this in the past.
Yeah.
We have used it.
Nobcon it was like a hot mess.
It didn't have a lot of the features like when you would switch a scene it would stop
all the effects and then play the next scene and we're like this is kind of beta.
But it turned out they fixed all of that like eight months ago or something and like
sometime in 2021 they like changed it so you can change scenes like Ableton style that
the effects don't cut off.
And it was like okay cool I'll give this a shot.
And it works.
Absolutely.
It loops just as well as the 505 it made me feel more sane because a guy just doesn't
know what the fuck they're doing with looping basically.
Same thing with the 1010 black box that was similar I ran into like a it wouldn't follow
a midi clock in any way it wouldn't even follow transport.
And I sold it to my friend Gabbo who then a couple weeks later was like yeah it's actually
a known bug they found with the firmware that it like won't work with midi clock.
Or it won't re-sync with midi clock and they're going to fix it.
I'm like well that's useless to me.
Like they should have made me aware of it.
I don't trust them to even push something out like that.
Like what else are you going to do with it.
But regardless I got this 707 and it was pretty exciting like the looping work the effects
were good.
It was jack of all trades reminded me of the Octa track.
So a lot of people right now are being like why don't you get an Octa track.
Yeah I used to beta test the Octa track used it for five six years at least.
It looped okay but it sounded kind of like dog shit and the effects were not good and
they should really do a real one one day if they aren't working on that they're nuts.
Like we've said before.
So it was like really into the 707 but the it loops it works well for that but it's just
honestly like not that much fun in some ways.
So there is like the big con like it's got these detented rotaries on the blow that a
menu that you use to like navigate through most shit.
And when you're trying to like edit a synthesizer and they have parameters that scale to like
a thousand values and you're using a detented rotary to do it and when you hit shift it
moves by a hundred increments.
So you've got it incrementing by one or by like a hundred and it's like on that tiny
ass menu.
On that tiny ass menu and even the menu like I got used to it enough I'm like okay I kind
of see what you're doing synthesizer like the synth is cool but there aren't many parameters
it's more like PCM waves which is actually cool like I like it's done but I like having
like trumpets and like string shit and like stuff I can mutate in music I've kind of
been wanting that.
I think I've talked about it before.
But what are the things that they have where the value range is a thousand like what do
they have that filter cut off.
So I get you have like more granularity than standard 128 value.
But for editing it's nuts and it's like all zippery when you edit it.
But then you get you know it's kind of like a t.r.a.
it's very similar size it's a little bit deeper so you get these like soft knobs on every
channel like three of them and those you can assign stuff to but only like kind of globally
and then you can change a filter there and it kind of works like much more smoothly it's
not a rotary it just kind of works well.
So it's cool it's like jack of all trades master of none like the octa track I'll probably
use it but it's also been like a huge time sync figuring it out.
It slowed me down I like having it there for like nine or nine and eight or eight drums
because it's got all that stuff on there even though it's not synthesis it's all samples
like they were clear to not overlap with the t.r.a.
dash which it would have been really cool if they had drum synths on there the Akai force
had that and they were pretty cool they sounded decent.
But so they kind of neutered it a little bit again electrons spoiled me there's no trigger
conditions you can nudge stuff in time weirdly like each clip and track can be its own BPM
so you get like ultra flexibility.
That's pretty cool.
To the point where they recommend like you should probably name your clips like 128 BPM
drum or something for drum A or whatever.
So you get a real poly type check going on.
Totally you can get really free form with it you can configure it each track can be like
a drama or a tone or a looper channel basically and it'll do mixing like it has four inputs
and they kind of let you use it just as a mixer so it's actually super cool as like
a live mixer like just a four input with really good effects mixer and you can do the kind
of ghost clip Ableton trick where you can just have effects assigned to an empty clip
that just passes the signal through and you can sequence like parameter changes and shit
that are kind of crazy.
It's easy to handle it.
Yeah.
So it's like they've really put a lot of thought into it you can tell they like really improved
it over the years.
And I like it but it's kind of like just sitting there now and as I have time I will
add something from it or use the synthesizer.
It's not like an access virus tie the synthesizer you know the filter they have Jupiter filter
model which sounds kind of cool and they have like a Moog clone filter model and they sound
cool but they're like it's really just the resonance quality seems to change a good bit.
So it's like I really like it.
Honeymoon's definitely over with it.
I'm going to keep it because it's very useful with what it can do and like the looping just
works but even in like live sets I would just use the RC 505 again.
That's what I asked him right back to where I started.
I was going to ask if it like if it found a home in the live set.
It might at first I was like this in a rhythm would be cool and then I sat down and used
it I'm like this synthesizer is not very fun for me.
Like my modular is way more fun.
The virus hooked up to the oxy is way more fun.
It's just immediate like there are lots of synth parameters and this one's a little more
limited like I said there's like pulse width on waves.
That's kind of it.
Yeah.
And then you get like sample layers and shit.
Cool sampler it like really has some power but even when you like pitch stuff up and down
it gets a little shittier than I expect when you do it and I was a little surprised but
I was just pitching down like 808 909 drums up and down like I do on every machine I've
ever had and you know to get certain sounds and it just kind of fell apart.
Some certain points that I was surprised by but it clocks great loops great.
They really polished it up.
I think they should redo it someday to like kind of just be a little a little better.
Right.
But the looping adventure is over again.
I like the 707 I would use the 505 live if I wanted to loop just because it's like built
for it.
You got a big fat button and you can see it finish the loop and it loops perfectly and
you get five of them on this you kind of got it like I'm going to go to this track make
sure this is selected.
You've got like multiple steps before you're even hitting that button to fire it off and
really defeat some of the purpose of a looper like when you look at like a looper pedal and
people that are using it with like somewhat more traditional acoustic instruments or doing
things live like you want to be unintrusive you want to just be you know that's why I
originally started with like pedals where you stepped on these different parameters like
it needed to be so simple that it was literally I'm doing a start I'm doing a stop.
But like everything was intuitive to the point where you could use it with your feet versus
that's sort of like fiddly.
A fiddly mess just doesn't work in a live setting.
No that first time I used the 505 live it was just like there was no friction you know
just like oh you're doing exactly what I want you to do your effects aren't that great.
I was tempted to get the new 505 but it wasn't like I don't know I still make my someday
but this one like I have this one it does what I'm just being really picky at this point
if I upgrade and I saw that you know watching you use it you it seemed natural it seemed
like something you just obviously groked right away.
Yeah like how it works.
What else with the 707 there was one other thing oh yeah you get like a couple minutes
of recording time it's not.
Wait really.
Yeah yeah you don't get much at all you actually get like 60 seconds I think of stereo clips
they have something though where you can like load other clips in like you only get
one project to with 128 scenes and you have to stop to load a project which you have to
architect around a little bit but they add something where you can load clips from like
lines of clips from other projects or like from presets so you can keep going but it's
a little clunky to keep going you know what I mean it's not like it seems like they figured
out a lot of stuff with this that they should put into a new version someday because I think
it's like a great idea I'd still kind of like it more than the Octatrack but there's
something about an electron that's so comfortable to me too.
That's like that's what I really want is just like a higher quality Octatrack and at the
end of the day that loops perfectly like the 505 of the 707 so rolling nailed the looping
though they did it like it just works well I don't know I a Kai can't.
Very weird to think.
Yeah it is especially with the force where that like the streaming from disk was one of
the biggest things that had me wanting to try it because I'm like okay you can actually
have a whole set from this thing blah blah blah but you can't fucking loop like it made
me insane.
The force was like 1500 bucks or something like that not cheap especially did not like
do that.
Right.
If you don't want to loop it's really cool I think it's fun to make stuff on but not
like for that much money for it to not do it's like prime function right you can even
resample it like seamlessly and that's like on the 707 you can resample it's like really
fun like I would take individual drums from the analog rhythm into the input and I would
raise all the faders and I'm like that's exactly like the pattern coming from the rhythm.
I mean I could do that on my ASRX from like 1999.
Yeah like that's resampling is a pretty true should be a pretty trivial thing to do.
That's kind of matters very weird.
Yeah so I don't know if I want something more robust than what the 505 can do at this point
that was the rap I didn't want to go down the like my portable audio interface is broken
so I would have to buy like a new computer audio interface my computer is kind of like
not great right now on as far as the keyboard not really working and it's a MacBook so it's
just like I don't want to upgrade my computer and get a new audio interface that's like thousands
of dollars right there and honestly I'm trying to like I'm at the point I said at the beginning
of the year but it was cagey about it but I'm like trying I don't want anything right
now I explicitly don't want anything new for multiple reasons.
Yeah so I'm ready to like do that now especially with this arriving I really love my module
I haven't wanted a module in a while now actually because I'm really happy with what
I've got same here I'm getting and I'm getting for me at least I'm getting a lot done which
I think is you know something can't be dismissed yeah is the fact that like I sit down you know
I've got a ton of recordings I now need to go through like the process of arranging and
turning them in the tracks and stuff but at no point have I been like I'm putting holding
off on fitting to this track because I need this or that or whatever like that's not that's
not what's keeping me from actually finishing this shit arranging is like so tedious yeah
I like yeah it's not like I sit down like oh the modules right there I can go make some
crazy new sound like I go do something cool and fun but it's like no do you I totally
feel you do half of my album is in suspension right now because same it's just the tracks
are recorded yeah bounce them out there oh it's all right there be programs yeah arranged
and I'm just like I'm right there too I've got the nine things that I've whittled down
from like 30 I just didn't like I just want to make something new to I'm not about like
five tracks right now that are like all in states of almost being done you know I mean
like yeah but even just this thing here this palette I could turn is on and make something
new like it's gonna mean to some new sounds that looks fun as fuck right this is yeah
this is this is a blast but I actually kind of need to put this aside and be like nope
I've already got stuff out of this I yeah I did get a new module and I've been doing the
same thing I've been kind of like avoiding playing with it for the reason I'm trying
to like remain productive but it was total impulse by the the Veehic oh yeah from Forge
Time I can talk about it a little bit I love it I love to hear about this so I don't actually
know if they're called Forge Time it's written as Forge TME but like my brain always reads
it as Forge Time so it could be Forge Tome Forge Tame yeah Forge Tomb I'm basically just
putting in all the vowels yeah it's probably time it's probably time it's probably not
tame that doesn't mean or just TME because it isn't all caps the way they're right so
I don't like that I don't like it time yeah I'm gonna go with Forge Time same so total
new manufacturer no track record you know yeah no hype no pre-orders no bullshit just this
is a real underground shit real underground shit it just appeared on Mod Wiggler saying
hey you know this is who I am and here's the module I've been working on while in lockdown
for the last two years it's finally released you can order it from my website and I was
like what the fuck is this like it seemed a little sussy fuck yeah I mean what is this
like I was like what's this no no Kickstarter trying to rope me in what is this nonsense you
know I need to be courted sir right I'm a lady um so yeah I was kind of like put off a bit
by how straightforward it was but at the same time intrigue and I was like okay like clearly
this got to be garbage right or something like no one's carrying this shit it's not in any
man you haven't got an email blast it's a direct order from the website yeah no email
blast and it's limited to 50 and I was like oh yeah I was like mmm but so I started watching
the YouTube videos and I was like okay now I'm getting a little curious because it was
very just dark and like we're boating you know the sounds that were coming out of this
thing and I was like it has my ears you know so did more research into it to see what exactly
it is and I think it's better if I just read their description because it really doesn't
explain much at all it left me with more questions than answers the VIC is a multi algorithm
experimental synth voice specializing in but not limited to complex drones and bases rich
textures and dynamic effects it combines sound generation and effects processing into one
module with nine different modes the general architecture consists of a bank of wave table
oscillators sent through a filter section which then passes into a delay based structure
the specific architecture and character of these sections dependent on the selected mode
that's it tells you not much yeah the fact that you know that this is a self-contained
synth voice it has some form of filter some form of effects on it and that it's wave table
bank based I like wave tables I like things that have low five effects and like so yeah
I looked into it more I finally said fuck it I'm gonna take a leap here because there
was only 50 and people were I guess were also curious and I saw they're already scooping
them up and I was like well by delay I'm not gonna have the chance to check this out if
I get it and I don't like it I can probably flip it so took the leap got it got here relatively
fast it shipped from Melbourne Australia which is where he's based cost 350 USD and I
liked it a lot like immediately it's it's still hard to understand exactly what the fuck
is happening so like it mentions the nine different modes those are all controlled with
two three way flip switches okay okay so like if one searches up and the others and
mutations and combinations right yeah on so you're flipping those two switches and on
top of that there's generative functions that occur every time you flip switch it slightly
alters the algorithm of the wave table and the effects generate that I do have a wild I
do a question yes sir are those toggles CVable no okay so you can't just like fire off a
bunch of CV no okay because I wish you could do it like bacillus style yeah that's what
you're getting at CV the mode you cannot that is one of the only things you can't see
the you can see be mostly everything else except for some of the knobs at the top which
I don't remember exactly what those do one is like span which is changing something I
think the unison basically of the the wave table oscillators it's it's a strange beast
does it have a screen like how do you know what's like it's all in front and you just
got to feel it out so even the wave table you don't know clearly you're just listening
by ear playing it by ear you're exploring weird semi generative territory with every
flip of the switch it's crazy fun some people already annoyed by that and have complained
that you can't get back to the same type of sound exactly you know like you're not memorizing
sweet spots with this like every time you're fucking with it you're exploring like new
territory but those people have no sense of adventurer and whimsical right like I have
a lot of stuff that I can be precise with right you know if I want to and I even have
like a lot of stuff in vcv now where I can save a snapshot right get back to that immediately
if I want to this is an entire different ballgame this is like purely sound exploration yeah
it's it's just alchemy yeah it's a lot of fun the feel of it is it seems like it's meant
to be an industrial friendly noisy I don't want to call it lo-fi but the effects definitely
are on the lo-fi side of things like it reminds me sonically a lot of when I used to run like
a cycle box through a plague bearer and a sound of shadows delay and create weird like
texture drones with that combo real real topical reference by the way is it no that's like from
like 10 years ago my bad I'm like people buying cycle boxes I was going to say like to all
of our listeners you may need to actually go look up what those are like brought to play
bearback if you didn't say related to the version oh I didn't see them any very limited
run of quad it's again to you really no I still have it on it I tried to get one just
I should never sold that but I'm not selling it back you cannot afford the price did a new
one I know like no no the price that I would charge you which is blood and bone it is not
it is not a blood and bones yeah it is not money people are flipping them high rates of
course I'm not getting rid of mine ever the newer ones are very very economic I'll say
I think I really think he was selling the black new version of the quad for 350 or something
like that yeah what I missed out on they got snagged up immediately I didn't mean it I
grass I just like but you listen three modules I'm like yeah those are very almost it's
been a while since you did that old but they were that was a very that was my go to chain
for a minute there was like those three or like the piss and Honda through those two like
I loved running wave table based digital oscillators through like a plague bear and a shitty PT
based delay you know I mean sound shadows is kind of my go to but I had others to you
know I mean yeah this might be a PT based delayed chip I don't know it but it has that
weird like kind of like glitchiness when you push it further and it can get almost reverbish
in some ways so where does it shine is it shining the low end the high end are using
it as a pad or using it as like kick drum material textures textures okay textures 100%
textures and drone just noise scapes you know have bolt proactive input it does it tracks
in fact the guy that makes it wasn't even sure that it tracked accurately like at first he
was like I think it does and he was like if you turn a CV fully clockwise or whatever
I think it tracks when we're locked and he was saying it was like kind of being weird but
then he updated later is like whoops the way I was measuring it was wrong yes it 100%
tracks well it's like cool but it's the type of thing where like I don't know if you really
want to you know what I mean like I sent it a sequence but for the most part I was just
seething the other parameters not necessarily the pitch and just creating like stretched
out long washes of weird industrial noise scapes with it you know that's really where
it shines for me and I think that's kind of the intent of it yeah but yeah fully self
contained module the only thing that's lacking really is like a VCA but the filter when you're
in low end or I'm sorry low pass mode fully closed so you can use that as like a pseudo
VCA you know and it's it's pretty cool is this the only thing they make yes yes it's
their first release the only thing they made they only made 50 of them they're already
sold out he's contemplating doing another run but also in like his YouTube videos you
can see a few other modules that have his same style and panel on it so I think there's
going to be more coming from this guy in the future and I hope there is because this
I feel like for your first module this kind of like knocked it out of the park you know
I mean like this was a definite hit in my opinion I'm curious to see what the hell
else he concocts again that's time or a forged time and the modules called VIC at least I
believe that's how you pronounce it I think it's V H I K K yeah I'm guessing as in like
vehicle oh I don't know it has like a Viking type of look to it you know the panel is
just all black with like muted gold this is giving me like video drum drop vibes yeah
like this is the tape that James would put in like he fell just a fail like that this
is sent you down a path to the new flesh I wanted something like that for a while you
know I mean like I and I've missed certain combinations yeah like that you know like
I mentioned so this like got me back there fairly efficiently you know like all self-contained
it's just a nice little noise module that I'm having a lot of fun with route and it through
other shit I forgot to mention it also outputs stereo so like even though it's lo-fi it's
stereo output and it has an audio input that you can process through that shit now do you
get the wavetable shit when you use the audio and how does that work it's with it some way
I don't really understand I think it's kind of like a piston hondie type of like I think
you're running it through everything I think it's it's string I don't think it's just a
filter in delay because when I was messing with the switches and running something through
it it was it was proving itself to be a good fuck shit up module yeah you know I was just
kind of mutilating the sound source not really sure what it was doing but sounded if you
put any beats through it or any hat first thing I tried yeah and I enjoyed that a lot
yeah I was running beats through it I was running others oscillators through it and just
all just strange you know I'm digging it a lot I don't think I'll be partying with it
anytime soon so I think that was a good leap of faith I took on it oh yeah nice yeah totally
didn't need it and it was completely it sounds like you did that was fine but it sounds like
you did though you're getting a lot of use out of it already yeah it's it's it's suiting
itself well to the new album which has a lot of you know atmosphere to it yeah that's
pretty good I mean I think we hit the ground running does anybody else have anything on
their list that they would like to go over that was it for me I my list but the rest of
my list this video shouldn't it I don't need to talk about it okay I could talk really
quickly about the a neepro gate crate neepro why does it spell it Ukrainian city dni
pro okay which I had to look up the pronunciation before this because I was like that's not dni
pro it's neepro yeah Ukrainian module manufacturer I got a crate not too long ago because it's
a three channel knob recorder and it's awesome it's like an incredible design it's tempo
synced basically everything it's got a few different modes knob recorder which is always
clock synced LFO tempo which can be clock synced or not and then and maybe it there's
maybe some other mode I don't know it wasn't the two that I use it for but as far as knob
recorders go I think I may have talked about the patching panda ephemera before I can do
it yeah this is way simpler you get three of them patching panda is a little different
because you can play like samples back and do that too I love this module though as far
as like knob recorder it feels like a electron knob recording in a modular that's always
in time you can change the length of it to be like one bar up to eight bars I think really
slick interface and like even when you knob record you can record it and you hold it in
and if you let it go it just kind of manipulates that offset in time and then when you hit record
you can like punch it in and it's almost like punching in gates into it like a square and
where you go so you can come up with these crazy shapes it'll respect like time if you
slow it down and still play it the same duration that kind of time stretch it does the recording
on and off take gate or is it all manual um no that's manual okay that's interesting
though if you were able to like trigger the right side yeah basically you were just in
there kind of like screw with the knob and the gate was actually handling the recording
and uh but I'm super super into it it's one of those things where you just immediately
are using it integrating into things there's like no learning curve um it's awesome how
big is it is this a big module it's like six HP oh wow it's pretty small it has that little
vertical um OLED screen oh that's when you're showing us yep okay I do remember this now
that the I love it that that interface was really interesting yeah it's great it makes
like total sense um it's cool because if they had it horizontal it would be a wider module
and like you just get it it's just like they really did a good job with the UX on it um
it just works really well I don't even know if it's on the latest firmware I have an upgrade
because I'm like well if it does what I want like I don't know if I need to upgrade what
have you been uh typically using it for like how like what are you um what you're recording
what are you sending that filter wavetable automation um sometimes other parameters but
like shit like that like decay on envelopes do you see it like using it live like sort
of recording things like it's like stuck in live set I think you could even um I could
not have LFOs and have that and it would make more sense oh that's cool that gives me like
that much more kind of control between that and the maestro those I might not have any
other LFOs in a live rig it would just be that in the maestro that like makes the most
sense to me actually then you don't have to like you get like presets kind of or not
um and it's just like it's very clear how to get it into that certain arrangement that's
awesome yeah so I'm psyched to they're not um that expensive they're I think they're
like hard to get right now because obviously um they're not making much of them I was gonna
ask do you know anything about the company and how they're faring they've chimed in I
think they're like yep we're all right for now um but I haven't seen much of an update
there because I know um same thing with happy nerding also from Ukraine and there's another
um another company I can't remember right now that's also from Ukraine I don't know
if we've actually said this but uh you know fuck Putin fuck oh my god fuck the invasion
fuck all of that I don't know if it necessarily even needed to be said but if there was any
ambiguity victory to Ukraine yes fuck fuck all of this yes but yeah the um weaponized
version of the disinformation campaigns that we experienced under Trump as an experiment
for what they're doing now okay so we started out this episode super posy like we had all
these great things to say I do feel like ending it with um this is on brand
*laughs*
mercy.
(electronic music)